---
title: "Пара стишков с англоязычного блога"
date: 2007-11-05
author: Anton Zujev
comments: false
tags:  english swedish
language: russian
---

Решил уйти только в ЖЖ. Посему скопирую оттуда некоторые рифмовки.

##Shot

He was a guy of fifteen years  
And didn’t have much to do.  
Of all martial weapons he chose only spears,  
His mind, so to speak, never tried to shift gears,  
He lived without having a clue.

And then, on a night of a freezing December,  
Or was it November? I don’t quite remember…  
He took a torpedo from his kitchen table  
(Which stood on one foot and to fall was unable)  
And then he just aimed at some poor looking stable  
And shot…

##Noname

When the star that shone so bright  
Fell upon the Earth,  
When the shadows of the night  
Showed me what it's worth

To be crowned the king of beasts  
Being just a child,  
To be thoughtful, wild and free,  
Tender, wise and mild,

When I saw the sunrise deep  
In the earthern caves,  
When I felt a woman's lips  
On my aftershave,

Only then did I forget  
Life of misery,  
Nevermore shall I regret  
Time I spent on thee.

##Noname 

He went through streets,  
He was alone  
Before he came to be.

The darkness grows  
And after all  
From mindlessness he'll flee.

He'll run into the deepest woods,  
He'll never ever care.

He'll find his deepest earthern roots,  
Destroy them he will dare.

##Night 

It was a night of great design,  
The devil surely took his time  
To shape it as the blackest crime  
He ever dared to scheme.

And when the moon lit up the sky,  
When darkness stopped it's lullaby,  
The stars began to sing out rhymes  
Of long forgotten dreams.

They sang of laughter, young and blue,  
Of light & shadows of the world -  
They told a tale which was so true,  
It made my very heart grow cold.

##Noname

What would you say  
If I took you away  
From the brightness of day  
To a sweet sunny May?  
There the mantis would pray  
And the sun, bright and gay,  
Never would go astray  
As it falls on the hay.

Make your choice, tell me, say.

'Cause when I'm old and gray,  
On the bed when I lay,  
At the end of my way,  
There will be no delay.

No choice. No delay.

##Our Hearts' Warm Desires 

The sweetness of treason,  
A heart's warm desire,  
The dampness of prison  
On heresy's pyre.

We fled from our freedom,  
Which was to us dear,  
To the unknown kingdom,  
Whose darkness we fear.

The candles for torches  
With matches we lit,  
The earth, white and scorched,  
We thought to be fit.

Our hearts' warm desires  
We'd never fulfill.  
Those yesterday's pyres  
Remember I will.

*И ещё по-свенска.*

*Старое одно.*

##Noname

Säger du att man kan flyga  
Upp i vita blanka himmeln?  
Vara vem som helst i smyga  
Utan att få vara hindrad.  
Man kan låtsas att man länge  
Varit den som man vill vara,  
Man kan leva och få bliva  
Den man alltid ville bli.

Men om bara man blir älskad,  
Om man älskar nån tillbaka,  
Då är tydligen man frälsat.  
Livet ljusna ska för en.  
Alla träden som var mörka  
Börjar sjunga överjordiskt.  
Allt som gjorde en olycklig  
Ska försvinna om en stund.

Det är underbart att älska!  
Och det får du aldrig glömma –  
Att det måste finnas männ’skan  
Som du alltid drömde om.

*И ещё одно, так, начало.. Так и не закончил его..*

Jag har hört hur det är när man älskar,  
Jag har hört att det känns underbart.  
Jag har hört mycket talas om kärlek,  
Men den känns inte än för mig klar.