---
title: "Siri. Reimagined."
date: 2011-11-16 01:10
author: Anton Zujev
comments: false
language: english
---

I’ve read a couple of iOS 5.0 and iPhone 4S reviews and paged through several more and people are generally quite fond of Siri and impressed by it’s “intelligence”. I quoted that word, because it hardly is an AI. Just a stunningly well scripted robot. Not that it is bad or something. But that’s beyond my point, which is simply that I think Siri will be extended to be used with third-party apps.

Many of the reviewers too saw this as a natural and logical continuation and development of the idea of the digital personal assistant. But many - if not every single one of them - were doubting the possible implementations of that extension. To me the only possible implementation seems absolutely natural. Remember how Siri asks you these additional questions to understand the task? “Which Tom do you mean? Tom Schneider? Tom Phillips?” (I don’t remember the precise phrase - I don’t own a 4S) Or, for example, “Do you want to call Jim at home or at work?”

Now, imagine you want to write a blog post about, say, puppies. You press and hold the home button on the iPhone, wait for the chime and say “Siri, blog the following for me. Today I have been thinking about puppies a lot. ” After you have finished, Siri asks you “Do you want to proofread this?” If you have spare time and if the post wasn’t that long, you answer positively and, upon finishing the proofreading, you respond: “Ready to post”. Siri then asks: “Which app would you like to use? Blogger? Tumblr? Elements?” And so on - one option for each app that uses the Siri API. Additionally, one could edit the available apps somewhere in a list, hidden deep inside the preferences. Or the apps could give you an option to dis-/enable the Siri integration from inside the app. Or Siri could learn from your habits. After you have chosen Tumblr, say, five times in a row, she could ask: “Would you like to use Tumblr as a default post editor from now on?”. And you’d respond: “Yes please”. And afterwards - to make a new post you’d just say “Siri, please post this and that.” And off it would go. And you could include additional parameters - “post this tomorrow at noon”, “post this with tags “apple” and “iphone”“. Etcetera, etcetera.

I think that would make a mindblowing update. That would truly revolutionize the lands of Voice control. No - dialog with your phone. A beautiful and integrated experience. I can’t wait.