---
title: "Drawing"
date: 2011-03-16 02:35
author: Anton Zujev
comments: false
language: english
---

Kelly Turnbull wrote a great post on drawing in her blog. There she tells the readers what to do to help them learn to draw. I won’t retell, there’s no point in it. But there is one thought in the post that I think is quite interesting and which I’d like to share.

The thought is that drawing is a bit like learning a language. I think it is a perfect analogy that reflects my thoughts on language learning. It is true that anybody can learn to speak Russian (or Swedish/Czech/Japanese/etc) and anybody can learn to draw. Some will have it easier, others - not. But I think you should begin with imitation, no with studying grammar or anatomy. Personally, to start learning a language I need somebody to explain to me the rules of pronunciation. Afterwards one can roam freely amongst foreign websites, books, movies and music and I won’t be learning any grammar, but will be able to explain myself soon enough. The same with drawing. You have to take a pencil and start imitating. It will slowly get better. If you don’t want to stay an amateur forever and stop mixing up different genera, cases and declensions, you will have to open the textbook and learn the problematic subject. If you want to draw a realistic muscular man, you will have to - sooner or later - study the anatomy textbook and find out where the muscles actually are on the human body. But these are all tasks for later. What you need to do now is forget about your fear and uneasiness and start imitating.

And for those of you who don’t know, Kelly Turnbull is the author of a great web comic called Manly Guys Doing Manly Things. The comic can be found on the same site, as the aforementioned post, [here](http://goo.gl/LaxyK).