---
title: "Today"
date: 2012-04-19 16:47
comments: false
tags: sweden food
language: english
---

It's a great day today. I'm currently on my way home from IKEA and this means that this weekend we'll be having traditional swedish meatballs with mashed potatoes for lunch. Can't wait. :)

It's been long since I last ate swedish cuisine, even more so since I first tasted it. I guess my first "dish" was made of gingerbread cookies called pepparkakor and cinnamon buns called kanelbullar. :) It was almost Christmas, or Jul as one would say in Swedish, and our teacher at the university who came from Sweden (Malmö to be more precise) decided to offer us some traditional swedish Christmas snacks. It was delicious, especially when you drank mulled wine (glögg) with it. Yummy. :)

Then there was this one dish that really stuck to my mind and for some time I was even certain that it is the most traditional swedish dish there is. It's called Janssons frestelse. Something along the lines of "Temptation of Jansson" in English. I never tried it though. I even doubt seeing it, except for pictures in our university books. 

There was one more speciality I haven't tried, one that I doubt I will ever try. It just sounds.. Repulsive. Those who know what I'm talking about surely understand this point of view. The dish is called surströmming -fermented herring, as my dictionary calls it. I have never seen - or, for that matter, smelled - one, but they say that the stench is so strong one has to air the whole apartment for a week if one dares to eat this at home. But they say that once you <sarcasm>hold your breath and close your eyes</sarcasm>, it tastes like fairytale. I don't think I will ever have the courage. 

Anyway, this weekend it'll be köttbullar med potatismos, gräddsås och lingonsylt, my absolute favorite of all swedish dishes.
