---
title: "USB RAID"
date: 2012-11-15 10:02
comments: false
published: true
tags: tech 
language: english
---

This year I finally began worrying about backup. I took my 1TB external drive and thoroughly expected its contents, deleting everything that I didn't really need. Then I ran Time Machine and selected the drive as a backup destination. I plugged the USB cord into my laptop and in this configuration I had lived for about half a year.

Now I am doing some upgrading - both laptop upgrading and a bit of home network upgrading. The laptop part is yet to come, but I am anticipating it very much. As for the network, I've completed the first step, the second one is coming in a couple of years, as it requires additional money to spend. I'm okay with what I have now.

Now, here's the prelude: we now have a single MacBook, the plastic white one, from uhh.. 2008? It has a 500 GB drive that, 350+ of which are taken up by iPhoto and iTunes libraries. And we're gonna upgrade to a 13" MacBook Air with a 128 GB SSD. This brings us to a couple of issues. The first one is that, doesn't matter how much I review those libraries, I'll never shrink them enough to fit on that SSD. The second one - what's the best way of backing the new notebook without spending too much money (yeah, money *is* sort of an issue at the moment).

Well, turns out I had two external HDDs - a 320GB one and a 1TB one. And what I've done was that I bought a) an additional (1.5TB) external HDD (with USB 3.0 support); b) a USB 3.0 hub; c) a new wifi router. The new HDD was split into two volumes - a 1TB one and a 500GB one. The contents of the old 320GB HDD went to the 500GB volume and the two 1TB volumes of the two drives were merged into one mirrored RAID. The two disks are plugged into the MacBook via the hub, so that they only take up one port and the RAID houses my media libraries - I've plenty of space to spare on them and the mirrored RAID gives me some safety guarantee. I'm only waiting for the old 1TB drive to begin failing to replace it with a new USB 3.0 one and up the speed. As for the old 320GB HDD, it is now plugged into the new router that has two USB ports and I backup my Mac to that HDD via Time Machine.

And that, ladies and gentlemen, is my latest setup.
